---
layout: post
title: Attending WGU
---

## In the beginning

I've had a fairly successful career up until 2020 where my lack of production experience in Kubernetes crushed most of my opportunities. Even gaining my Certified Kubernetes Administrator certification wasn't helpful without real workload experience.

Something that has been pointed out, that I don't want to believe, is that my lack of a higher degree is getting me filtered out of the deep pool of applicants.

So, I've decided, I wanted to reboot my career now that I don't need to do DevOps any longer, it's time to get started.  I'm willing to get back into student loan debt (something I escaped only a few years ago) to shake things up.

After looking at my options, WGU stands out for it's self-paced coursework. It's more expensive than other options, but it has a good reputation and I might be able to finish sooner that trying to fit in-person classes into a work schedule.

Pursuing the online Bachelors offerings, between Computer Science and Data Analytics, I choose that later to have a little less math to accomplish and because D.A. is applicable across a lot of industries with the massive amounts of data we are processing these days.

## Access Denied

Well, my youth has caught up to me. Because of all the problems I had with getting funding for my GI Bill, I only have accomplished a few classes, one of which was credit only, bringing down my GPA to below the school standards. Despite that, one of my classes does apply towards my degree, so I'm 3 credits done already.

Luckily, there is an option to take an Introductory Term, and if I pass that with a B or better, I'll be accepted into the school.

Going through the class choices, I find the Applied Statistics and Probabilities course is part of my degree program and decide it'll make a suiteable test of the WGU experience.

## Equipment

Reading through the introductory information, a graphing calculator is `highly recommended` since you are not allowed to use a smartphone during the proctored exam. Doing some review of options showed they are not exactly cheap.  I ask my oldest child if they have a graphing calculator I could borrow and they replied they wished they had one.

So, I choose a TI 94+ color so that the different lines are easier to read in the larger display.  I'll use the calculator for my math classes and then donate it as a hand me down. I did let them choose the color of the hard case, since I won't care after I'm done.

## Getting registered

I had quite a few problems with different browsers accessing the WGU websites, being blocked/timed-out, broken pages. Most of these issue resolve when I come back to the computer hours later, or sometimes, Incognito mode works.  I'm concerned that I have problems with Chrome as that is specified as the supported browser. Here's hoping for the best.

After engaging with technical support a few times, I'm in and registered and starting the course.

## Breezing through the beginning.

The first three (of seven) modules are all review of basic number terminology. operations order and methods, sets and groups. So by the time I met with my instructor, five days after I started, I was already beginning module 5. She told me to not hesitate to reach out if the material becomes more challenging, but to keep on working my way through the course at my own pace.

She did confirm my calculator (which supports Python, something I missed when I bought it) is suitable for the proctored exams, and showed me some functions on the device that will be useful in the D.A. program.

Early the next week, I met with my Student Specialist for the Introductory Term (it will be someone else once I'm in the full program) at which point I had already started module 7. She wished me luck in finishing and offered her support.

I am aware that the rapid pace I'm accomplishing this course is in large part thanks to the Artificial Intelligence/Machine Learning course I tried to take last year. While I barely passed that class due to it's sudden use of statistics, the class exposed me to most of these terms and concepts.